Rust Compressor
================

A toy rust library for playing with/analyzing the GZIP/DEFLATE format. Primarily
used as part of a research project--it has a "testsuite" and I attempt to keep
the code cleanish, but this is nowhere near high enough quality to be used in 
production, though it may be useful for understanding GZIP files.

The core of the code is an implementation of the encoding and decoding methods
and formats specified in [RFC 1951](https://www.w3.org/Graphics/PNG/RFC-1951),
the DEFLATE format. 

The DEFLATE format wraps an LZ77 implementation which is implemented more-or-less
using the recommendation derived from RFC 1951. There is an optional parameter
in the LZ77 stream which allows us to change the maximum backreference length
and distance: if this is set to larger than the DEFLATE defaults, the resulting
stream cannot be encoded into a DEFLATE stream or GZIP file since there is no
mechanism in RFC 1951 for encoding these numbers.

The code also comes with protobuf implementations for certain data structures 
(currently just LZ77 streams and DEFLATE streams). This allows for analysis of
the results in different languages (e.g. Python/Julia) without the need to write
a separate GZIP/DEFLATE parser in that language.

Finally, the code has a GZIP file reading function, allowing us to break down +
analyze the contents of existing compressed archives.

## Compatibility

When used with the default LZ77 backreference limits encoding turned
off, the GZIP files generated by this code *should* be correctly decodedable by
an RFC 1952-compatible implementation of the gzip utility. This has not been
seriously tested.

The library should be capable of reading any GZIP files generated by an RFC 1952
compatible gzip implementation and decompressing/decoding them. While this is
not formally tested in the testsuite aside from a few hardcoded examples, this
functionlity is an often-used part of this code.